== Datetime::Gregorian
include Comparable


::parse(string, format=nil, language=nil)
::iso_8601(string)
::rfc2822(string)
::rfc822(string)
::xml_schema(string)
::components(string)
::weeks(year) # how many weeks does this year have?
::civil(year, month, day, h,m,s,tz)
::ordinal(year, dayofyear, h,m,s,tz)
::commercial(year, week, dayofweek, h,m,s,tz)
::time(hour, minute, second)
::seconds(seconds, tz, language)
::today(tz, language)
::now(tz, language)

#<=>(datetime)
#+(duration)
#-(duration_or_datetime)

#at(hour, minute, second) # => Datetime
#in(zone, language)       # => Datetime

#civil_year (year)  # => Integer
#commercial_year    # => Integer
#month              # => Integer (1-12)
#day_of_month (day) # => Integer (1-31)
#week               # => Integer (0-53)
#commercial_week    # => Integer (0-52)
#day_of_week        # => Integer (0-6)
#day_of_year        # => Integer (1-366)
#hour               # => Integer (0-23)
#minute             # => Integer (0-59)
#second             # => Integer (0-59)
#millisecond        # => Integer (0-999)
#microsecond        # => Integer (0-999)
#nanosecond         # => Integer (0-999)
#picosecond         # => Integer (0-999)
#offset             # => Duration
#timezone           # ISO 639-1? also see ISO 3166
#language           # ...?...

#weeks_in_year  # how many weeks this year has
#weeks_in_month # how many weeks this year has
#days_in_year   # how many days this year has
#days_in_month  # how many days this month has

#monday?     # => true/false
#tuesday?    # => true/false
#wednesday?  # => true/false
#thursday?   # => true/false
#friday?     # => true/false
#saturday?   # => true/false
#sunday?     # => true/false

#month_name(language=nil) # => String
#day_name(language=nil)   # => String

#format                   # => String
#strftime                 # => String

#end_of_month
#end_of
#with(values={})          # 
#at(hour, minute, second) # 
#on(year, month, day)     # 

#to_time
#to_hash
#to_a

-----
	succeeding(unit, step, upper_limit, &block)
	current(unit, at, &block)
	previous(unit, step, lower_limit, &block)

	leap_year?

	
	strip_date
	strip_time
	
	datetime?
	date?
	time?
	date_only?
	time_only?

# calculate other datetimes from this date
next([:day, :<weekday>, :week, :month, :year], step=1, [until]) { |date| }
current(...see next...)
previous(...see next...)
